---
layout: post
title:  "Pipenv: Improved python dependency and virtual environment management"
date:   2018-01-08 12:00:00 -0400
categories: tooling
---


`pip` has been used in combination with `virtualenv` to create isolated python
environments and to manage project dependencies. [`pipenv`](pipenv1) provides a higher
level abstraction over `pip` and `virtualenv` helping automating parts of the development
workflow.


## Quickstart


### Install pipenv

You can use `pip --user pipenv` (alternatively don't specify `--user` if you want it
installed globally as opposed to just for current user).

### Shell

In order to jump into a project or initialize a [`Pipfile`](pipfile1), you can
use `pipenv shell`. This will activate the virtualenv for the project in a sub-shell (use
`exit` or `CTRL+D` to exit back into your original shell).


### Pipfile

The `Pipfile` will now replace the `requirements.txt` file and store both
dev-dependencies and regular dependencies in a single location. It is automatically
managed by `pipenv` when you install and uninstall packages.

### Installing and uninstalling packages

A `pipenv install` without any other arguments will install all packages and additionally
specifying the `-d` flag will also install dev-dependencies as well.

`pipenv install PACKAGE_NAME` will install the package and add it to the `Pipfile`. You
can specify the `-d` flag to install a package as a dev-dependency. Uninstalling is the
same concept, just replace `install` with `uninstall`.


[pipenv1]: https://github.com/pypa/pipenv
[pipfile1]: https://github.com/pypa/pipfile
